# pizza-app

## Slack App Bot setup
1. Go to `https://api.slack.com/apps/`
2. Click the `Create New App` button
3. Choose `from scratch`
4. Give it a name and pick a workplace, and click create
5. Click `Socket mode` in the menu
6. Turn on `Connect using Socket Mode`
7. Copy the Token (this is the `SLACK_APP_TOKEN`).
8. Click `Event Subscriptions`
9. Turn on `Enable Events`
10. Open `Subscribe to bot events`
11. Add the events `app_mention` `file_shared` `message.channels` `message.im`
12. Click `OAuth & Permissions` in the menu
13. Go down to `Scopes` and click `Add an OAuth Scope` and add the scopes `chat:write` `im:write`
14. Go to `App Home`
15. Go down to `Show Tabs` and switch on `Messages Tab` (to allow DMs)
16. Go up to `OAuth Tokens for Your Workspace` and click `Install to Workspace`
17. Choose a channel and click `Allow`
18. Click `OAuth & Permissions` and copy the token at `Bot User OAuth Token` (this is the `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`).
19. Click `Basic Information` in the menu
20. Now you have the `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN` and `SLACK_APP_TOKEN` needed to run the bot.

## How to run the system

### Development
The frontend, backend, bot (worker and batch), and database can all be run with docker compose by running `docker-compose up`. Optionally you can do `docker-compose up -d [service]` to only start one or more service. During development all services run behind an nginx instance to simplify their interactions. The ports are 80 and 443.

### Production
#### Heroku
We are using terraform to describe the infrastructure, which can be found in the `/infrastructure` folder. In addition to this the backend/bot have `Procfile` and `runtime.txt` files that describe the process and heroku runtime. While the frontend have `.static` in the `public` (generated by webpack) to indicate the application folder for the nginx buildpacker.

1. Go into the `/application/frontend/` folder and build a production build of the react app with `npm run build:production`.
2. Go into the `infrastructure` folder and run `terraform apply`.

Infrastructure:
  Backend-app: contains the database and backend application
  Bot-app: contains an attachement to the database, the bot worker, the bot batch (not running), scheduler and scheduler job
  Frontend-app: contains an nginx instance with the build files from the `public` folder

#### Cloud / Docker
It should be fairly straight forward to deploy to other cloud services by using the production docker containers in `application/containers/production`. However, Heroku and Terraform didnt fully support using docker (as the build context would be the same location as the Dockerfile which would ruin the folder structure. The fact that everything application related is put into the `application` folder is already from a limition in terraform/heroku), as such docker won't be used for this project as of now, but they are here for when they are needed.

##### Frontend
The frontend is a React application. Simply run the command `npm run build:production` and then host the files in your prefered cloud service for static files.

##### Backend
The backend is a flask application. The easiest way to run it is to use the dockerfile in `/containers/production` in your prefered cloud service.

To build the image run the command `docker build --build-arg DB_NAME=pizza --build-arg DB_USER=postgres --build-arg DB_PASSWD=postgres --build-arg DB_HOST=host.docker.internal --build-arg DB_PORT=5432 -f backend.Dockerfile ../../` with the args `DB_USER` `DB_PASSWD` `DB_NAME` `DB_HOST` `DB_PORT` with your systems values.

To run the image run the command `docker run -e DB_NAME=pizza -e DB_USER=postgres -e DB_PASSWD=postgres -e DB_HOST=host.docker.internal -e DB_PORT=5432 -p 80:80 [id]` where `id` is the docker image id, with the args `DB_USER` `DB_PASSWD` `DB_NAME` `DB_HOST` `DB_PORT` with your systems values.

##### Bot
The bot is a collection of python applications. The easiest way to run it is to use the dockerfiles starting with the name bot. in `/containers/production` in your prefered cloud service.

###### Worker
To build the image run the command `docker build --build-arg DB_HOST=host.docker.internal --build-arg DB_NAME=pizza --build-arg DB_USER=postgres --build-arg DB_PASSWD=postgres --build-arg SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=[bot-token] --build-arg SLACK_APP_TOKEN=[app-token] --build-arg PIZZA_CHANNEL_ID=[pizza-channel-id] -f bot.worker.Dockerfile ../../` with the args `DB_USER` `DB_PASSWD` `JDBC_URL` `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN` `SLACK_APP_TOKEN` `PIZZA_CHANNEL_ID` with your systems values.

To run the image run the command `docker run [id]` where `id` is the docker image id.

###### Batch
To build the image run the command `docker build --build-arg DB_HOST=host.docker.internal --build-arg DB_NAME=pizza --build-arg DB_USER=postgres --build-arg DB_PASSWD=postgres --build-arg SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=[bot-token] --build-arg SLACK_APP_TOKEN=[app-token] --build-arg PIZZA_CHANNEL_ID=[pizza-channel-id] -f bot.batch.Dockerfile ../../` with the args `DB_USER` `DB_PASSWD` `JDBC_URL` `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN` `SLACK_APP_TOKEN` `PIZZA_CHANNEL_ID` with your systems values.

To run the image run the command `docker run [id]` where `id` is the docker image id.